README.md, before:

# Software Demonstrator for LTNs for RAMM

## Project Descritpion

This project is a traffic simulator which can be used to understand the impacts of LTNs, with a focus on the Heavitree neighbourhood in Exeter, UK. The simulator was designed and developed by a team of students at the University of Exeter for the ECMM427 Group Development Module (see the [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement) section below for details).

## Executive Summary

In our increasingly urbanised society, the organisation and design of our neighbourhood becomes increasingly important. The layouts and permitted uses of our spaces can influence our daily lives in a number of different ways, such as where and how we socialise, our navigation tendencies, along with quality of life indicators such as pollution concentration and local noise levels.

LTNs (Low Traffic Neighbourhoods) are designed to reduce traffic and involve blocking off vehicular access on certain roads using traffic calming measures (such as boom barriers and bollards), to prioritise pedestrians and cyclists. Another goal of these neighbourhoods is to improve local quality of life indicators: increasing the resident's daily exercise, reduce pollution and diverting heavy traffic to arterial roads.

There is currently a heated debate on LTNs in Exeter, specifically on a trial being implemented in the Heavitree and Whipton Neighbourhoods. Residents of these neighbourhoods and workers at the Exeter council are largely impacted by this debate, however, we believe that there is a gap in knowledge and understanding of how these sorts of neighbourhoods work. As a result of this, we seek to implement an intuitive, interactive traffic simulation of LTNs. 

This program will simulate a road layout environment in which users interact with permissions such as placing barriers on different streets in the neighbourhood. Upon execution, the simulation should record relevant metrics which will be presented through the user interface, in graphical form. Changes in metrics on the environment can be tracked by the user serving as an education tool regarding the holistic implications of LTNs.

The goals of the simulation and this project are:
- To be an education tool to serve to inform users about LTNs and their impact on a community.
- To enhance decision-making regarding implementation of LTNs, while promoting transparency and understanding of people's needs.
- To reduce conflicts in the debate arising from misinformation, or the lack of information.

By presenting data in an engaging and digestible format, we educate users, helping them make more informed decisions based on their improved understanding of LTN dynamics. Users should gain a clearer, less biased understanding on how LTNs function, as well as the impacts that they have on micro and on macro scales. We will enable users to visualise the tangible benefits and potential challenges of implementing LTNs, along with providing a degree of transparency to the operation of LTNs.

Whilst designing the project, numerous risks have been identified. We will ensure that the limitations of the simulation are clear, and that this tool is not primarily intended as a tool used to design LTNs. Our tool is an educational tool, and not meant to be used as an exact simulation (without modification and verification). More risks are explored in the risk management section.

Our proposed simulation seeks to demystify the complexities of neighbourhood design and increase the understanding we have about LTNs as a whole. By providing an interactive and informative tool, we aim to foster more constructive dialogue and decisions surrounding this crucial urban development topic.

## License

This project is licensed under the permissive MIT license. More information can be found in [`LICENSE`](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgements

This project was designed and developed by the LTN team, comprising of:
- Zdenek Plesek
- Ted Proctor
- Oscar Rilot
- Tomas Premoli Muniagurria
- Scott Deverinne
- Ahmad Hussain

This project was proposed and supervised by Diogo Pacheco at the University of Exeter.

Commit message:

Added links to README and built with section

README.md, after:

# Software Demonstrator for LTNs for RAMM

## Project Descritpion

This project is a traffic simulator which can be used to understand the impacts of LTNs, with a focus on the Heavitree neighbourhood in Exeter, UK. The simulator was designed and developed by the LTN Team at the University of Exeter using the Unity engine.

## Executive Summary

In our increasingly urbanised society, the organisation and design of our neighbourhood becomes increasingly important. The layouts and permitted uses of our spaces can influence our daily lives in a number of different ways, such as where and how we socialise, our navigation tendencies, along with quality of life indicators such as pollution concentration and local noise levels.

LTNs ([Low Traffic Neighbourhoods](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low_Traffic_Neighbourhood)) are designed to reduce traffic and involve blocking off vehicular access on certain roads using traffic calming measures (such as boom barriers and bollards), to prioritise pedestrians and cyclists. Another goal of these neighbourhoods is to improve local quality of life indicators: increasing the resident's daily exercise, reduce pollution and diverting heavy traffic to arterial roads.

There is currently a heated debate on LTNs in Exeter, [specifically on a trial being implemented in the Heavitree and Whipton Neighbourhoods](https://www.devon.gov.uk/news/heavitree-and-whipton-active-streets-trial-begins-today). Residents of these neighbourhoods and workers at the Exeter council are largely impacted by this debate, however, we believe that there is a gap in knowledge and understanding of how these sorts of neighbourhoods work. As a result of this, we seek to implement an intuitive, interactive traffic simulation of LTNs. 

This program will simulate a road layout environment in which users interact with permissions such as placing barriers on different streets in the neighbourhood. Upon execution, the simulation should record relevant metrics which will be presented through the user interface, in graphical form. Changes in metrics on the environment can be tracked by the user serving as an education tool regarding the holistic implications of LTNs.

The goals of the simulation and this project are:
- To be an education tool to serve to inform users about LTNs and their impact on a community.
- To enhance decision-making regarding implementation of LTNs, while promoting transparency and understanding of people's needs.
- To reduce conflicts in the debate arising from misinformation, or the lack of information.

By presenting data in an engaging and digestible format, we educate users, helping them make more informed decisions based on their improved understanding of LTN dynamics. Users should gain a clearer, less biased understanding on how LTNs function, as well as the impacts that they have on micro and on macro scales. We will enable users to visualise the tangible benefits and potential challenges of implementing LTNs, along with providing a degree of transparency to the operation of LTNs.

Whilst designing the project, numerous risks have been identified. We will ensure that the limitations of the simulation are clear, and that this tool is not primarily intended as a tool used to design LTNs. Our tool is an educational tool, and not meant to be used as an exact simulation (without modification and verification). More risks are explored in the risk management section.

Our proposed simulation seeks to demystify the complexities of neighbourhood design and increase the understanding we have about LTNs as a whole. By providing an interactive and informative tool, we aim to foster more constructive dialogue and decisions surrounding this crucial urban development topic.

## Built With

This project is developed and built using the [Unity](https://unity.com/) game engine. Details about the software used in this project can be in the [software bill of materials](docs/software_bom.xlsx).

## License

This project is licensed under the permissive MIT license. More information can be found in [`LICENSE`](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgements

This project was designed and developed by the LTN team, comprising of:
- Zdenek Plesek
- Ted Proctor
- Oscar Rilot
- Tomas Premoli Muniagurria
- Scott Deverinne
- Ahmad Hussain

This project was proposed and supervised by Diogo Pacheco at the University of Exeter.
